CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Camouflage

Thank you for your interest in Camouflage! This root repository coordinates the documentation site, design/architecture, and the language-specific implementations. Most code changes happen in the submodules, while the documentation lives under docs/.

- Kotlin implementation: `kotlin-lib/`
- Dart implementation: `dart-lib/`
- Documentation website: `docs/`

If your contribution affects only one language, work in that submodule. If it affects documentation or cross-cutting design, open an issue/PR in the root repo.

## How you can contribute
- Use the issue templates in `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE` to report bugs or request features.
- Improve docs in `docs/` (see “Contributing to Docs” below).
- Implement features or fixes in `kotlin-lib/` or `dart-lib/`.
- Improve tests, CI, and developer experience.

## Where to open issues and PRs
- Kotlin library changes → open in `kotlin-lib/` and scope your PR to that path.
- Dart library changes → open in `dart-lib/` and scope your PR to that path.
- Docs, design, or multi-language coordination → open at the root repository.

We may ask you to move an issue/PR to the correct submodule if needed.

## Contributing to Docs (Docusaurus)
The site is built with Docusaurus and exposes four top-level sections at the website root:
- Guide → /guide
- Components → /components
- API → /api
- Architecture → /architecture

Source structure:
- docs/development/guide/ (sidebar at docs/development/guide/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/components/ (sidebar at docs/development/components/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/api/ (sidebar at docs/development/api/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/architecture/ (sidebar at docs/development/architecture/sidebars.ts)

Adding a new page:
- Create an .md or .mdx file in the appropriate folder above.
- Register it in that section’s sidebars.ts to control ordering and categories.
- For code examples in Kotlin/Dart, prefer using:
  - `LanguageSwitcher` for a small toggle button (optional), and
  - `LangTabs` with two `TabItem` blocks (values: `kotlin` and `dart`) to keep examples in sync with user preference.

Run the docs locally:
- Requirements: Node 20+
- From docs/:
  - Install deps: `npm install` (or `yarn`)
  - Start dev server: `npm run start`
  - Build static site: `npm run build`

## Workflow
1. Fork the repository and create a branch from `main`.
   - Suggested branch names: `feat/<scope>-<short-desc>` or `fix/<scope>-<short-desc>`
2. Make changes with small, focused commits.
3. Ensure formatting and checks pass (see each submodule’s CONTRIBUTING for language specifics).
4. Open a Pull Request using the template (`.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`) and link related issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").

### PR title format (Conventional Commits)
Use Conventional Commit style for PR titles. Format:

```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>
```

- type: one of `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`
- scope: affected module/package (e.g., `kotlin-lib`, `dart-lib`, `docs`)
- short description: concise summary of the change

Examples:
- feat(kotlin-lib): add redact() helper for masked logging
- fix(dart-lib): handle null input in Parser.fromJson
- docs(docs): add getting started guide for components

Tip for GitKraken users: GitKraken uses the first line of the commit message as the PR title. You can copy the PR title format directly when committing.

## Code of Conduct
Participation in this project is governed by the Code of Conduct in each submodule:
- Kotlin: `kotlin-lib/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`
- Dart: `dart-lib/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`

For sensitive reports, email contact@srctool.org.

## License
- Root repo (docs & concepts): MIT (see LICENSE)
- Kotlin/Dart libraries: Apache 2.0 (see licenses in each submodule)

By contributing, you agree your contributions are licensed under the respective project licenses.

## Questions
If you’re unsure where something belongs or how to start, please open a discussion/issue or email contact@srctool.org. Thanks for contributing!

Commit message:

chore: add release process, automation, and branching policies
Introduce detailed documentation for release workflows and versioning,
clarifying branching rules and automation triggers. Add GitHub actions
for automated releases, submodule synchronization, and enforcement of
merge policies. Update naming conventions, changelogs, and githooks.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Camouflage

Thank you for your interest in Camouflage! This root repository coordinates the documentation site, design/architecture, and the language-specific implementations. Most code changes happen in the submodules, while the documentation lives under docs/.

- Kotlin implementation: `kotlin-lib/`
- Dart implementation: `dart-lib/`
- Documentation website: `docs/`

If your contribution affects only one language, work in that submodule. If it affects documentation or cross-cutting design, open an issue/PR in the root repo.

## How you can contribute
- Use the issue templates in `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE` to report bugs or request features.
- Improve docs in `docs/` (see “Contributing to Docs” below).
- Implement features or fixes in `kotlin-lib/` or `dart-lib/`.
- Improve tests, CI, and developer experience.

## Where to open issues and PRs
- Kotlin library changes → open in `kotlin-lib/` and scope your PR to that path.
- Dart library changes → open in `dart-lib/` and scope your PR to that path.
- Docs, design, or multi-language coordination → open at the root repository.

We may ask you to move an issue/PR to the correct submodule if needed.

## Contributing to Docs (Docusaurus)
The site is built with Docusaurus and exposes four top-level sections at the website root:
- Guide → /guide
- Components → /components
- API → /api
- Architecture → /architecture

Source structure:
- docs/development/guide/ (sidebar at docs/development/guide/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/components/ (sidebar at docs/development/components/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/api/ (sidebar at docs/development/api/sidebars.ts)
- docs/development/architecture/ (sidebar at docs/development/architecture/sidebars.ts)

Adding a new page:
- Create an .md or .mdx file in the appropriate folder above.
- Register it in that section’s sidebars.ts to control ordering and categories.
- For code examples in Kotlin/Dart, prefer using:
  - `LanguageSwitcher` for a small toggle button (optional), and
  - `LangTabs` with two `TabItem` blocks (values: `kotlin` and `dart`) to keep examples in sync with user preference.

Run the docs locally:
- Requirements: Node 20+
- From docs/:
  - Install deps: `npm install` (or `yarn`)
  - Start dev server: `npm run start`
  - Build static site: `npm run build`

## Workflow
1. Fork the repository and create a branch from `develop` (integration branch).
   - Suggested branch names: `feat/<scope>-<short-desc>` or `fix/<scope>-<short-desc>`
2. Make changes with small, focused commits.
3. Ensure formatting and checks pass (see each submodule’s CONTRIBUTING for language specifics).
4. Open a Pull Request using the template (`.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`) targeting `develop` for features/bugfixes and link related issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").

### PR title format (Conventional Commits)
Use Conventional Commit style for PR titles. Format:

```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>
```

- type: one of `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`
- scope: affected module/package (e.g., `kotlin-lib`, `dart-lib`, `docs`)
- short description: concise summary of the change

Examples:
- feat(kotlin-lib): add redact() helper for masked logging
- fix(dart-lib): handle null input in Parser.fromJson
- docs(docs): add getting started guide for components

Tip for GitKraken users: GitKraken uses the first line of the commit message as the PR title. You can copy the PR title format directly when committing.

## Merging policy
- Upstream repository: Squash and merge only on protected branches `main` and `develop`. Merge commits and rebase merges are not used on those branches.
- Forks: You may use any workflow/merge strategy in your own fork. When proposing changes upstream, the final merge into `main`/`develop` will be squashed.
- The final squashed commit title is taken from the PR title; the body is taken from the PR description.
- Keep the PR title in Conventional Commits format and ensure the description explains the "what" and "why`. Maintainers may edit the final message for clarity.

## Code of Conduct
Participation in this project is governed by the Code of Conduct in each submodule:
- Kotlin: `kotlin-lib/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`
- Dart: `dart-lib/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`

For sensitive reports, email contact@srctool.org.

## License
- Root repo (docs & concepts): MIT (see LICENSE)
- Kotlin/Dart libraries: Apache 2.0 (see licenses in each submodule)

By contributing, you agree your contributions are licensed under the respective project licenses.

## Questions
If you’re unsure where something belongs or how to start, please open a discussion/issue or email contact@srctool.org. Thanks for contributing!

## Keeping submodules in sync
- PRs targeting `develop` (and `main`) in the upstream root repo will automatically update submodule pointers so the root points to the latest commits in each submodule’s matching branch (develop → submodules’ develop; main → submodules’ main).
- Local convenience (optional): we ship Git hooks to help keep submodules updated when you switch branches or pull:
  - Hooks are in `.githooks/` and call `scripts/sync-submodules.sh`.
  - Enable them once per clone:
    - `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`
  - After enabling, submodules will be initialized and, when on `main` or `develop`, advanced to the latest `origin/main` or `origin/develop` respectively. You can also run the script manually: `scripts/sync-submodules.sh`.
  - Note: hooks are opt-in and affect only your local clone.

## Release and versioning
- Day-to-day work flows as forks → feature/bugfix branches → PRs into `develop`.
- When preparing a release, create `release/<version>` from `develop` in your fork and open a PR into `main` on the upstream repository.
- After the PR is approved and merged into `main`, tag the merge commit with `v<major>.<minor>.<patch>` (e.g., `v1.2.3`).
- The version tag triggers automation to:
  - Generate/update changelogs and create a GitHub Release.
  - Publish library artifacts for both `kotlin-lib` and `dart-lib` (subject to secrets being configured).
  - Update root documentation and changelog.
- Hotfixes: branch from `main` as `hotfix/<desc>`, PR into `main`, tag a new `v<...>` upon merge, then back-merge to `develop`.
