docs/contributing/how-to-open-a-pull-request.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Open a pull request
title: How to open a pull request
---

Use this checklist to submit a high‑quality PR.

Before you open the PR
- Rebase on the latest main and resolve conflicts locally.
- Ensure builds and tests pass locally (see language‑specific steps below).
- Run format/lint tools.
- Update docs and changelogs (if applicable).

PR title and description
- Title uses Conventional Commits style: `<type>(<scope>): <short description>`
  - Examples: feat(kotlin-lib): add redact() helper; fix(dart-lib): avoid late init error
- Description includes:
  - What changed and why
  - Links to related issues (e.g., “Fixes #123”) and design discussions
  - Screenshots or logs for visible behavior changes
  - Migration notes if breaking changes

Target and scope
- Kotlin changes → affect files under kotlin-lib/
- Dart changes → affect files under dart-lib/
- Docs changes → affect files under docs/
- Multi‑area changes: call out each area touched and test scope.

Reviewer checklist (run locally)
- Kotlin: ./gradlew build test
- Dart: dart format . && dart analyze && dart test (or flutter test)
- Docs: from docs/: npm install && npm run build (or npm start for smoke testing)

After opening the PR
- Be responsive to review feedback; keep commits focused.
- Avoid force‑pushes during review unless requested (they make it harder to review deltas).
- When squashing/merging, preserve the Conventional Commit style in the final message.

Merging policy
- At least one approval is required. Maintainers may request additional reviewers based on scope.
- CI must be green. Maintainers may re‑run flaky jobs or ask for follow‑ups if needed.

Commit message:

chore: add release process, automation, and branching policies
Introduce detailed documentation for release workflows and versioning,
clarifying branching rules and automation triggers. Add GitHub actions
for automated releases, submodule synchronization, and enforcement of
merge policies. Update naming conventions, changelogs, and githooks.

docs/contributing/how-to-open-a-pull-request.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Open a pull request
title: How to open a pull request
---

Use this checklist to submit a high‑quality PR.

Before you open the PR
- Rebase on the latest develop (or main for hotfix/release PRs) and resolve conflicts locally.
- Ensure builds and tests pass locally (see language‑specific steps below).
- Run format/lint tools.
- Update docs and changelogs (if applicable).

PR title and description
- Title uses Conventional Commits style: `<type>(<scope>): <short description>`
  - Examples: feat(kotlin-lib): add redact() helper; fix(dart-lib): avoid late init error
- Description includes:
  - What changed and why
  - Links to related issues (e.g., “Fixes #123”) and design discussions
  - Screenshots or logs for visible behavior changes
  - Migration notes if breaking changes

Target and scope
- Target branch: feature/bugfix → develop; release/hotfix → main
- Kotlin changes → affect files under kotlin-lib/
- Dart changes → affect files under dart-lib/
- Docs changes → affect files under docs/
- Multi‑area changes: call out each area touched and test scope.

Reviewer checklist (run locally)
- Kotlin: ./gradlew build test
- Dart: dart format . && dart analyze && dart test (or flutter test)
- Docs: from docs/: npm install && npm run build (or npm start for smoke testing)

After opening the PR
- Be responsive to review feedback; keep commits focused.
- Avoid force‑pushes during review unless requested (they make it harder to review deltas).
- When squashing/merging, preserve the Conventional Commit style in the final message.

Merging policy
- Upstream repository: Squash and merge only on protected branches `main` and `develop`. Merge commits and rebase merges are not used on those branches.
- Forks: You may use any workflow/merge strategy in your own fork. The final merge to upstream `main`/`develop` will be performed as a squash merge.
- At least one approval is required. Maintainers may request additional reviewers based on scope.
- CI must be green. Maintainers may re‑run flaky jobs or ask for follow‑ups if needed.
- The squashed commit title comes from the PR title; the body comes from the PR description. Keep both clear and concise.
